This text describes the world's setting

The Biggest Picture

I haven't come up with names for anything, yet :( Sometimes I'll mention what something is inspired by from the real world, so that it's easier to imagine. 
I guess I'll start with the astronimical setting, the the biggest one that matters? I'm not much for being over the top disc-carried-by-three-turtles, the setting isn't much different from a realistic one. The planet, on which the story happens, is the only large object of its relative size to orbit around and between the two suns of a binary star system. It's forever caught in orbit, but the orbit is shaped like an 8. The Summer Star and Winter Star are the sole causes of the world to have seasons.  Because its axis is perpendicular to its orbit, there would not have been seasons without the different intensity of the two suns. 


Geology and Geopolitics

The world is akin to Earth in that it has large oceans and two great continents. The smaller continent in the south, a fairly tectonically active, temperate, mountainous archipelago that spans across the planet horizontally, almost forming a ring of land and islands. The political map for it has a lot of borders and colours, as the people that inhabit it have formed a variety of nations, not unlike the many small republics of 15th century Italy. Ranging from democracies, to oligarchies, to monarchies, and technologically comparable to western Europe in the 16th and 17 century. Until recently, for very long it had been known that the world is, if not shaped like an endlessly long dildo, or a sphere, because for all they knew, the sea to the north went on forever. But with the advances in seafaring, they had recently discovered land beyond the ocean previously thought to be endless. What is known to them is that the land north of them is inhabited by several great, but stagnant, slave empires, who themselves have also not fully charted the landmass. 
 In reality, the northern continent falls under almost all the climactic belts, from tropical to arctic, south to north respectively, and therefore has many climates, and many other things forgotten by man.


Politics and Segwaying Into Magic

About the politics somewhat resembling westeros and easteros: I swear it's a coincidence. The New World empires are akin to ancient Egypt pushed to extremes, where one's fate in society depended on whether one was able to do magic or not, which of course depended on one's bloodline. How feared the gifted people are varies across the slave states, from being considered demigods, to a fearsome oligarchy. This is extremely foreign to the southerners, as they almost forget that magic even exists. The only practitioners of magic in the southern islands keep to their own small communities, and are spread very thin around the islands. The mages of the old world are basically very rare monastic magical Jews. Yeah. 

Magic 101
Magic only works in the summer. Nobody knows why. I do, though. But I don't know if I should tell, since it's not very important for everything else to make sense. But yeah, magic only works when at a certain distance to the Summer Star. How the mages of the northern realms manage to hold their rule all year round is kept a secret, and is not even known to the  magical monastic Jews of the Old World. I should come up with a name for them...
 Here's how the magic works: there are mainly two types: Runes and Spells. Spells are very rare, only work under sunlight, and very specific in their effects. Runes are how most magic is done. I haven't fully established how runes work yet. What I know is that what any rune does is determined by its components (glyphs), customised by the user (like Magicka, but not really). A rune must be written/drawn first, and disappears upon being 'cast'. However, it's not 'cast' as much as 'absorbed' into the user. It stays inside the user's body and is controlled by the user. Better mages can hold onto the rune for longer, move it around in their body, and can also disperse or divide the rune around their body. How the mage can hold onto the rune and how effective it is depends on the users physique. There's no mana or anything. If this were DnD, Intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma would be irrelevant as even magic would depend on Dexterity, Strength or Constitution. Depending on the rune, using it might be tolling on the body the same way running a marathon, or sprinting, or sparring, or lifting a weight might be. This is why the best mages are also ripped like Greek gods, or flexible like world-class gymnasts.
 Back to Glyphs. The components of runes. Not all mages have all glyphs. Some are very commonly known, some are rare and sometimes even traded, some are kept as secret (much like spells). 